In her text “Humanities Approaches to Graphical Display” Johanna Drucker discusses the use of graphs in the field of humanities and how they can affect how the audience interprets information. While graphs are meant to be – and should be – neutral, and free of any assumptions, Drucker explains how this is often not the case, and that the graphical presentation of data can lead the viewer towards a biased understanding of the information. Drucker makes the differentiation between “data” and “capta,” arguing that data is something that is given, and capta is taken. She explains: 
Capta is not an expression of idiosyncrasy, emotion, or individual quirks, but a systematic expression of information understood as constructed, as phenomena perceived according to principles of interpretation […] the character of the "information" shifts from self-evident "fact" to constructed interpretation motivated by a human agenda (Drucker, 2011).
	While data is a neutral truth that can not be changed or argued against, capta is the form information takes when it is influenced by human bias. In this way, capta can be viewed as being subjective while, contrarily, data is objective. To Drucker, these two do not exist in equal measure, but rather, most of what we see in graphs is actually capta.
	Drucker’s point of view almost entirely opposes that of Franco Moretti on the subject of graphs, as he believes graphs should not – and do not – have any bias, and that they are all objective. 
Graphs are not models; they are not simplified versions of a theoretical structure in the way maps and (especially) evolutionary trees will be in the next two articles. Quantitative research provides a type of data which is ideally independent of interpretations, I said earlier, and that is of course also its limit: it provides data, not interpretation (Moretti, 2003).
	Drucker believes that graphs are often biased as the collection of information from the creator still relies on their individual experience, and had someone else collected the same material, their different perspective would create different information. When shown a graph like the one below, which displays the trends in the wording of her article, Drucker would argue that the display of information is unclear. Different people would find different results as the information being shown is not fully clarified. What is considered a “document segment” and how is it measured? For the viewer receiving the information, she would argue that their understanding of what’s being displayed is not the same as other’s interpretations and that there is not one solid, objective understanding of what’s being shown in the graph.
  
  <!--	Exported from Voyant Tools (voyant-tools.org).
The iframe src attribute below uses a relative protocol to better function with both
http and https sites, but if you're embedding this into a local web page (file protocol)
you should add an explicit protocol (https if you're using voyant-tools.org, otherwise
it depends on this server.
Feel free to change the height and width values or other styling below: -->
<iframe style='width: 637px; height: 532px;' src='//voyant-tools.org/tool/Trends/?query=graphical&query=time&query=information&query=data&query=humanistic&query=interpretation&query=chart&query=display&query=temporal&query=space&withDistributions=raw&bins=12&docIndex=0&mode=document&corpus=d6693360c39261ba2eea314a9d699d7f'></iframe>
  
Drucker makes many strong points in her article, supporting her arguments. I agree with her view that much of what is assumed to be objective data is actually influenced by the individual (whether they are the reader, or the one gathering the “data”) and their perspective. However, I find that her proposed solution to this issue doesn’t offer much help. She argues that, since much of the data we see has some level of ambiguity, graphs should also be made to convey some of this ambiguity. 
Perhaps the most striking feature distinguishing humanistic, interpretative, and constructivist graphical expressions from realist statistical graphics is that the curves, bars, columns, percentage values would not always be represented as discrete bounded entities, but as conditional expressions of interpretative parameters–a kind of visual fuzzy logic or graphical complexity. Thus their edges might be permeable, lines dotted and broken, dots and points vary in size and scale or degree of ambiguity of placement, and so on. These graphical strategies express interpreted knowledge, situated and partial, rather than complete. They can be employed as systematically as other charting elements, though part of my intention is to disturb the grounds of certainty on which conventions of statistical legibility are based (Drucker, 2011).
The problem is, data is graphed in order to make information easier to digest for the audience. If we were to present information in a way that leaves room for certainties to be blurred, then the information isn’t being made any more clear and can then be open to interpretation – and mis-interpretation – by the audience. In many of the data visualisations Drucker presented, the information being shown was so undistinguishable and abstract that the explanation required to clarify the image ended up being so long and descriptive that the visualisation itself became almost obsolete. At a certain point it would be easier to simply give the audience the run-down in writing and omit the visualization all together.
Though Drucker isn’t alone in believing in more open-ended, interpretive forms of information visualization. Stephania Forlini, Uta Hinrichs and Bridget Moynihan have experimented with creating graphs that display information in a way that allows the viewers to make their own deductions, allowing  many different interpretations of the same information. This “promotes creative play and problem-solving across disciplines, and allows for visualizations that are uniquely suited to the collection under study” (Staphania et al., 2016). However, in doing this, they are almost pointing out a flaw in Drucker’s views. Drucker intends to display information that is final. Contrarily, however, Stephania et al. are doing this not in the aims of displaying actual data as a finished product, they instead simply aim to graph their findings in order to evoke further research into the subject. In other words, it is ambiguous for a reason.
“Rather than using visualizations solely to display the final "results" of our research, we are experimenting with evolving interactive visualizations in tandem with our research questions and ongoing investigations […] The visualizations are thus integral to our research "process", shaping and being shaped by our research questions and ongoing findings, and are not simply tools used as a means to an end” (Stephania et al., 2016).
My stance on all of this is that, while Drucker made an interesting case, it shouldn’t be as black and white as it’s made to be. She believes that the traditional forms of graphic visualization are unable to accurately represent the information and rely too heavily on assumptions. While this may be the case in some instances, I feel that in certain areas, bias really isn’t present at all. If a graph covers all its bases and clarifies what it aims to represent properly, then in many cases there shouldn’t be any fuzziness to what’s being shown. Also, while data is always changing, and each individual can receive it differently, there are some things that remain constant, no matter who is interpreting it. I find her proposed ‘solution’ to the issue only makes things even less coherent for the viewer and doesn’t fix the problem at all. In this case we’re better off with data visualizations remaining as they are, keeping the possibility that information may be slightly skewed or slightly unclear.

Works Cited:

Drucker, Johanna. "Humanities Approaches to Graphical Display." Digital Humanities Quarterly, The Alliance of Digital Humanities Organizations, 2011, www.digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/5/1/000091/000091.html. Accessed 27 Feb. 2018.

Moretti, Franco, 1950-. Graphs, Maps, Trees : Abstract Models for a Literary History. London :Verso, 2007. Accessed 27 Feb. 2018.

Forlini, Stefania, Uta Hinrichs, and Bridget Moynihan. "The Stuff of Science Fiction: An Experiment in Literary History." Digital Humanities Quarterly, The Alliance of Digital Humanities Organizations, 2016, digitalhumanities.org:8081/dhq/vol/10/1/000228/000228.html. Accessed 27 Feb. 2018.
 

